Test auto instrumentation and logging instrumentation (#105)
undefinedlabs/scope-docs: docs/go-logging-instrumentation.md

---
id: go-logging-instrumentation
title: Scope Go Agent Logging Instrumentation
sidebar_label: Logging Instrumentation
---

The Scope Go agent has support for capturing logs from the following sources:

> - Test logs (calls to `t.Log()` and other test methods) are automatically instrumented using monkey patching. Includes support for capturing source file and number information, and also for the exact timestamp and level of the log event. It is compatible with parallel tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Standard library test logs (calls to `testing.T.Log` and related methods) are automatically instrumented. Includes support for capturing source file and number information, and also for the exact timestamp and level of the log event. It is compatible with parallel tests.
```

> - Scope Test logs (calls to `test.Log` and other test methods) includes support for capturing source file and number information, and also for the exact timestamp and level of the log event. It is compatible with parallel tests.

Reviewer: I'd remove this line here, and just leave the explanation in the `Scope Test logs` section

> - Standard logger (calls to `log.Println()` and related methods) is automatically instrumented. Includes support for capturing source file and number information, and also for the exact timestamp of the log event. It is not compatible with parallel tests - if logs are emitted through the standard logger while tests are running in parallel (using `t.Parallel()`), logs are attached to any running test at that time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Standard logger (calls to `log.Println` and related methods) is automatically instrumented. Includes support for capturing source file and number information, and also for the exact timestamp of the log event. It is not compatible with parallel tests - if logs are emitted through the standard logger while tests are running in parallel (using `t.Parallel()`), logs are attached to any running test at that time.
```

- Custom loggers (`log.Logger` instances) can be manually instrumented with the same capabilities as the standard logger autoinstrumentation.
- Standard output/error (`os.Stdout` and `os.Stderr`) can be manually instrumented. Includes support for the timestamp of the log event but not the source file or line number information. It is not compatible with parallel tests.

> Note that instrumentation for `log.Logger` and standard output/error is done globally in the application, and is not compatible with parallel tests. In order to differentiate the logs of a given test, only sequential tests are supported for these instrumentations. Only per-test logs (calls to `t.Log()` and other test methods) support parallel tests.

> > The Test logs instrumentation can be disabled adding the environment variable: **`SCOPE_DISABLE_MONKEY_PATCHING=true`**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The standard test library automatic logging instrumentation (calls to `testing.T.Log` and related methods), which is achieved using monkey patching, can be disabled by adding the environment variable `SCOPE_DISABLE_MONKEY_PATCHING=true`. In this case, in order to attach logs to tests, you can use the Scope `test` object logs as explain in the following section.
```

## Scope Test logs

> In case the standard Test logs instrumentation is disabled, the Scope Test struct has support for logging and is completly instrumented. As the Test logs instrumentation, support all features (source file and number, exact timestamp, and level of the log).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case the standard library test automatic logging instrumentation is disabled (by using the environment variable `SCOPE_DISABLE_MONKEY_PATCHING=true`), the Scope `test` struct implements the same logging interface as `logging.T` and it's instrumented. It also support all features, such as capturing the source file and line number, exact timestamp, and level of the log.
```

---
id: go-logging-instrumentation
title: Scope Go Agent Logging Instrumentation
sidebar_label: Logging Instrumentation
---

> > Loggers and Standard Output/Error instrumentation is done global in the application. In order to differentiate the logs of a given test, only sequential tests are supported out of the box.

Reviewer: I think we should add another section at the top of the file documenting how we automatically instrument `t.Log` (and friends), and that it is the recommended way to log as it both contains metadata about the source file and line number and is compatible with parallel tests.

Author: done

---
id: go-logging-instrumentation
title: Scope Go Agent Logging Instrumentation
sidebar_label: Logging Instrumentation
---

The Scope Go agent has support for capturing logs from this number of sources:

- Test logs (`t.Log`), by capturing the internal log buffer of the test, includes support for source file and number, but not the exact timestamp of the log event.

> - Standard logger (`log.Println`, ...), by using a custom writer to save the log events with the exact timestamp, source and file number (using log flags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Standard logger (calls to `log.Println()` and related methods) is automatically instrumented. Includes support for capturing source file and number information, and also for the exact timestamp of the log event. It is not compatible with parallel tests - if logs are emitted through the standard logger while tests are running in parallel (using `t.Parallel()`), logs are attached to any running test at that time.
```

> - Custom logger (`log.Logger` instance) is instrumented similar to the standard logger with the same features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Custom loggers (`log.Logger` instances) can be manually instrumented with the same capabilities as the standard logger autoinstrumentation.
```

> - Standard output / error (`os.Stdout`, `os.Stderr`) by replacing those implementation with Pipes and consuming the output, includes support for the timestamp of the log event but not the source file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Standard output/error (`os.Stdout` and `os.Stderr`) can be manually instrumented. Includes support for the timestamp of the log event but not the source file or line number information. It is not compatible with parallel tests.
```

Is the timestamp here exact? No, right?

Author: No, the timestamp is not exact, has the pipe write and read delay.

Reviewer: I have updated the suggested change

> > Loggers and Standard Output/Error instrumentation is done global in the application. In order to differentiate the logs of a given test, only sequential tests are supported out of the box for these instrumentations. Only Test logs (`t.Log`) instrumentation supports `t.Parallel()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note that instrumentation for `log.Logger` and standard output/error is done globally in the application, and is not compatible with parallel tests. In order to differentiate the logs of a given test, only sequential tests are supported for these instrumentations. Only per-test logs (calls to `t.Log()` and other test methods) support parallel tests.
```

## Standard logger

By default the Scope Go agent instruments the standard logger in the `log` package.

In order to have more precise log info, it's recommended to set the logger flags to:

```go
import (
    "log"
)

func main() {
    log.SetFlags(log.LstdFlags | log.Lmicroseconds | log.Lshortfile)

    // ...
}
```

## Instrumenting a custom logger

The Scope Go agent provides a helper function to instrument a custom `log.Logger` instance:

```go
import (
    "go.undefinedlabs.com/scopeagent/instrumentation/logging"
    "log"
)

func main() {
    myLogger := log.New(os.Stderr, "", log.LstdFlags|log.Lmicroseconds|log.Lshortfile)

    logging.PatchLogger(myLogger)

    // ...
}
```

## Instrumenting the standard output / error

> To activate the standard output or the standard error instrumentation, the Scope Go agent also contains two helper functions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To activate the standard output or the standard error instrumentation, use the following functions:
```
